There's no need to exchange pleasantries. It's rather pathetic to force a conversation just to occupy silence.
You're so happy just to see the sun again? How childish.
You think I've got a sharp tongue? I just tell it like it is. If someone can't handle it, maybe that's their problem.
You want to use my hat as an umbrella? Hmph, the audacity to even make that request...
Huh. How irritating.
A simple breeze like this... Even you can conjure it, right?
Rise and shine, sleepyhead, the sun's already in your eyes! ...Haha, don't tell me you actually thought I'd wake you up like that?
Finally, another boring day is drawing to a close.
I'll leave that kind of thing to fate. Obsessing over something that's destined to be ever out of one's reach is just a waste of time. I have more important things to attend to at the moment.
So, you're still stewing over our run-ins from before? Huh. Well, what are you going to do about it? Take your time. I'm in no hurry.
Look. The birds are showing off their plumage, the squirrels are busy hoarding food, and humans are laboring for their livelihoods. Truly, simple animals don't need anything complicated to be fulfilled.
You want to learn more about me? How ridiculous. Don't you know that's only asking for trouble?
Oh, I'm well aware that many, many people will want to seek me out and settle the grudges they've built against me in my past life. Fine by me
I once thought that deification would allow me to get rid of all of my pointless emotions, but I've since abandoned that view. Anger, whether it be from others or myself, is too convenient and useful as a tool.
How can some people just never become angry? I find that impossible to even imagine. Do they just not have a single mean bone in their bodies?
When I entered Irminsul, there was only one thought in my mind: I wish I'd never been born at all.
Irminsul responded to my wish, but didn't bring me the outcome I desired. The fate of this world hasn't changed a single bit when it comes to playing cruel tricks on its prisoners.
You and I have crossed paths in the past, but our journeys will eventually diverge. Who knows what will happen next? Let's just wait and see.
Hobbies? Those are for idle bodies who have the free time to think about such things. Do I look like I have any interest in distractions?
I'm trying to figure out a way to get rid of you so I can go commit atrocities. ...Wait, did you think I was being serious?
Do you have some tea? The more bitter, the better. It leaves the most fascinating aftertaste.
I'm no fan of Dango, or any other sticky sweets that make me feel like my teeth are fusing together. Keep them to yourself
It's okay. Guess this is one of the few things you're good at.
Not bad. You actually made something edible.
You wanna poison me? Are you so dumb as to have forgotten that I'm not human?
Give me your hand. Heh, there's no need to be nervous. I'm just taking you to a vantage point. How is it? The scenery here should be quite breathtaking. There's no need to thank me — I see little point in it.
The wind is blowing this way... What did you do?
You aren't worried about making me more powerful? ...Alright.
Although I can be of help to you, seeing me as an ally is still a dangerous endeavor. I hope you understand what you're doing. If you still insist on continuing down this path, then let me lead the way.
Cry louder!
Bow your head!
Know your place!
You dare to gaze upon me
Hah, you even want this?
Nothing worth mentioning.
Why are you even here?
Worthless as expected.
The price... for my sins...
Everything... was futile...
Falling... into the abyss...
I'll have you beg for mercy.
Prepare yourself for punishment.
...You're dead.
...How amusing.
That's far enough.
Huh... What do you want from me?
This had better be important.
Are you sure it has to be me? ...Fine, let's get this over with.
It took three betrayals for me to finally understand: The world is just an elaborate tapestry of lies.
Look at that, hot on my heels. You know, you didn't have to cut your catch-up short just to keep me company.
I understand that prisoners have to put up with harassment from the guards, but right now, I'm on temporary release, so maybe you should think about backing off a little.
Sometimes it's you using them, other times it's them using you. Most human relationships are this way... certainly all the stable ones are. That's how it was between me and the Fatui, and also between each of the Harbingers.
What did you expect? Why do you think Sumeru would keep me around otherwise? ...Or maybe killing me is all you can think about?
There's a time and a place to lie, but this definitely isn't it. So why don't you relax your guard a little?
Right now, we have to keep the peace. I'm not interested in creating more misery for myself, and making cordial conversation is something I can manage.
...Are you worried about me? If we didn't have such a history, I'd almost think that qualifies me to be your friend.
From this day forth, the names "Balladeer" and "kabukimono" will cease to exist ...Those who died in Tatarasuna because of me deserve another chance at life.
You know, I never did like insects. Hordes of the puny things swarming together can be a real nuisance... and I enjoy nothing more than to stamp them out like the pests they are.
But if a colony of harmless ants isn't threatening anyone, I guess they deserve to be left alone... Luckily, everything can be set right. It's time to solve this once and for all.
...Look, I'm just a wanderer. But seeing as you've gone to all this trouble to track me down, I'm sure whatever it is must be important.
You want to tell me, but you can't bring yourselves to say it. Looks like I didn't have the most wonderful existence in my previous incarnation.
I gave everything I had, but it barely changed history at all.
...I don't think I can judge everything I've heard purely in terms of right and wrong. Each choice a person makes belongs to a specific place and time, a chain of cause and effect... a cycle of karma and consequence.
I'm just a puppet, with no heart and no name. There is nothing in this world for me to cling to, to fill the void within me... except maybe these sins that can never be undone.
...Time to face the music.
No matter what lies ahead, I'll face it. Whatever it takes. I'm just sorry that you have to join me for the whole thing.
I was abandoned, like you. I lived here for a while at first, but... There's nothing for us here. We can't stay...
...You promised me we could be family! You're no different from Niwa and all the others... You betrayed me too. Haha...
I'm sure you think so, but I still think you need to hear it: Don't start thinking you're invincible. And don't let your emotions get in the way.
I'm under no obligation to be nice to you. Besides, I thought nothing mattered to you except results and your own interests.
You're about as much fun to be around as a raging inferno. But before we murder each other, it'd be best if we finish our duties.
You're a god... Do you think I'm evil?
That was gracefully worded. Ever wonder what they'd think if they knew that nothing matters to you apart from your crazy experiments?
In your eyes, are there any differences between humans and puppets?
I've seen enough of my past. If possible, I'd like to reclaim the sins that are mine to bear. No matter the consequences, I won't run from blame or punishment. Whatever I am due, let it come to pass.
I've always believed that human lives follow a set of rules, with each person being a collection of past experiences. As a puppet living in the human world, my life is subject to the same rules.
I've lived with a void in my chest my whole life. My creator didn't need me, and ever since I awoke, I've just drifted from one place to the next. But then I met you, and I finally realized that reclaiming my missing sins might be my one opportunity to become my true self.
So I beg you... grant me this opportunity to gain a purpose. To change my destiny and end my wandering.
Have you got any more stupid questions!?
Imbecile! Get out of my sight! 
It's fine. Let them stab their blades into my chest if they so desire. ...Maybe that's how it always should have been.
Hah. Barely two words in and you already look like you want me dead.
You're getting all worked up over nothing. Pff, you've changed... You're getting weak.
 How can you call it anything more? It's the way of the world. Human life is worthless. They were always going to die, with or without a Delusion. At least having one gives them a chance to fulfill their ambitions.
For just a small price, they get the feeling of controlling the world. Trading their life for supreme power... pretty good deal, don't you think?
Just like a bubble on the water. Beautiful for a moment, then total destruction.
The more it takes from them, the more tightly they hold onto it. And the more incompetent they are, the more determined they are to fight it! Hahaha, it's such a farce, you have to see the funny side.
Hahaha... That's it, just like that! Embrace the anger... Embrace it!
The first to betray me was a god. My creator... my mother. Valuing strength above all, she saw no worth in me, and I was discarded.
The second was a human. My family... my friend. Consumed by fear, he saw me as an abomination.
The third was one exactly like me. A hope for the future... a fledgling barely out of the nest. Powerless before his mortality, he broke his promise to me.
Humans... they can't be trusted. And the gods fill me with pure loathing. So I said good riddance! I denounce the world and laugh in its face. 
My chest will never again be defiled by worldly filth. I will scrub away every last trace of human emotion. Then it will be empty, a blank slate.
And ready to receive a supreme Gnosis, brimming with pure divinity
Hehehe... Ahahahaha! There is no need to fear. The pain will be brief... Your era... is coming to an end
But this also shows that humanity's worship of gods is a combination of blasphemy and exaltation. It's truly laughable.
I was born to become a god. My entire life up until this point has just been a meaningless routine.
Just think about a sheet of paper... By itself, it holds no meaning. The content recorded on it is what gives it value. All "I" had recorded down before were some painful memories and boring human feelings. Such senseless drivel should have been erased a long time ago.
Indeed, to me, the sight of you fools and your futile struggles is far more amusing. Tell me, just what has this world done for you to protect it with such zest and conviction?
It is an honor for you to be able to stand here and speak with me. As my listener, you will be rewarded. Both good things and bad things can be called gifts. After all, gods have never needed to be reasonable.
When my spirit ascended to divinity. I felt as if I had existed for the same number of epochs as heaven and earth. Looking back, the existence of what once called itself "Kunikuzushi" appears infinitely small and ugly.
Who would have thought... The world would be so eager for my "birth"
Do you not realize... that you are interrupting a conversation between gods? Lowly creature, know your place!
Strife is engraved upon every god and every Gnosis brought forth into this world. Can you feel it? The exhilaration of such power, and the thrill of anticipation for our contention...
Hmph. Your judgment is as your existence: unsubstantial.
Let us reenact a scene of the Archon War. Come and inaugurate my birth as a god.
This is supposed to be a battle between gods, yet you choose to hide behind a mortal
Save it. No more fun and games for me today. I'll come for you when I'm good and ready.
The stars, the sky... It's all a gigantic hoax. A lie.
So long, suckers!
Just call me Hat Guy. That's the name I use in Vahumana.
You two sure like to poke your noses where they don't belong. If I don't say anything, are you going to annoy me to death?
...I heard that the Vahumana researcher named Aqaba was researching the Tatarasuna incident, so I wrote a few essays to refute his points. Later, when I was bored, I wrote some commentary on societal issues in Inazuma. I didn't expect Vahumana to consider me as one of them. Someone even invited me to a lecture or whatever.
Someone's about to get very unlucky — wanna guess who?
Do you really think you can see through me?
You're overthinking it. Power is just a tool. It just seems to me that you don't have the resolve to win this. Well, suit yourself. Wallow in your immature ideals if you like.
Is there really any need for me to take part while everyone's running around like it's some sort of carnival? Don't worry, I'll get involved once things actually get serious.
This seems more annoying than the last round. That's fine, though — I'll find someplace to sit and watch them scurry.
You two must have a lot of free time if you came looking for me.
You should be thrilled that I have nothing to do. Otherwise, that means someone's in for a very, very bad day.
It's not like I care about winning or clout. Really, the real prize for me is watching all these people fight over something so useless.
Hah, I don't remember signing up to become a scholar. Don't you think I'm useful enough to you as a prisoner?
Morning, sunshine. You were having a nice little dream there, weren't you? Not gonna lie, it was kind of adorable.
Sorry to break it to you, but crashing into the ground doesn't take you to another world. That kind of thing only happens in those stupid light novels they sell in Inazuma.
The "Hero's Sword," meant to be wielded by the hero... I know, me of all people, right? The irony.
Hah, you expect me to take orders from some disembodied voice?
Have you ever considered keeping your questions to yourself? Because if you actually expect me to answer them all, we'll be here until the next Interdarshan Championship.
Reckless idiots...
Prepare for a final battle. Sometimes... it takes a little force for someone to finally wake up.
Tch... Stubborn beast. You really wanna get beat up that bad?
Hmph... More boring "fate" talk.
So, that's it? That's really your wish? "To never have been born at all"... That's not a fate you should wish for.
Nobody can define who you are... Or deny the true feelings of your heart. Now, remember your name— ...Durin.
When I first came to this world, a voice spoke to me and said, "You are the Hero of this world. Now go forth, and save the dragon."
Anyone with eyes can see that all you want to do is get along with everyone.
You just want to make friends. People to play with, to talk to... People who accept you, or at least... accept your apology.
...I, the Hero of this world, give you my blessing. I recognize you as a resident of Simulanka... May you find acceptance in this world.
Also... Speaking as someone who'd like to be your friend, I wish you all the best for the future.
That's simple — just go out there and atone. You could fill in the footprints you left on the ground, or help the people around the Broken Sea get home.
Lying to you would be no fun anyway.
Well, that's a nuisance.
Huh? What's this got to do with me?
Why would I be? Do I strike you as someone who cares about other people's issues?
Quit trying to guess what I'm thinking. I'm leaving.
...It'll be up to you to stick close. If you disappear on me, don't expect me to come looking. 
Yeah, well maybe I needed some space after being cooped up in there for so long. Anyway, it's a school, not a prison, so what's the problem?
Shut up. Not another word.
...I've told you already. Stop trying to read my mind.
...So annoying.
Call me whatever you like. Go ahead, let me see what you can come up with. Don't disappoint me.
You think I've got a sharp tongue? I just tell it like it is. If someone can't handle it, maybe that's their problem.
There's no such thing as pure freedom in this world. Even the wind cannot blow on forever.
Fundamentally speaking, there's little difference between snow and rain, yet people lavish praise only upon the former... Fate can be truly arbitrary.
A puppet consumed by a raging fire will leave behind ashes. As for what will emerge from them...
I'll never be one of the good guys. I'm just here to pay my dues after what you've done for me.
But what about you? Shouldn't you come up with some excuse for our meetings? If one of your friends mistakes you for collaborating with the enemy, you're on your own.
Although the idea of "divine favor" makes me a little ill, I'm not going to be picky about a new source of power.
I've got nothing. Ask me anything if you want. If a question is interesting enough, I may give you an answer.
Not long ago, Lesser Lord Kusanali kept asking me to visit the Akademiya, to borrow books or attend lectures to immerse in the academic atmosphere. I was annoyed by this and wandered around the wilderness, but she still managed to find me.
She said she understood that I don't like being around others, but it can be very painful being alone all the time. She also said at least I could see you if I bring you something on my birthday. But why should I give someone a present when it's my birthday? How absurd.
We ended up making a lot of food that is not to my taste, so I'm definitely not eating them. You can take the rest, eat it if you like it, throw it away if you don't. I have no interest in knowing what you do with it, you don't have to tell me.
But their little joke did remind me that on this day, there is someone I need to give a gift to. Since I'm the one picking the gift, I'll choose it based on my own preferences. If you've got any opinions, you'd best tell me in person.
Lately, there's always been a gaggle of students sneaking around and gossiping behind my back. One glare, and they'd scatter and hide.
And would you believe it? Just when I was hiding out in the wild, seeking some peace and quiet, they jumped out of some bushes holding a cake that anyone could see was sickeningly sweet. It's so incredibly ridiculous that I had to laugh.
You call crushing ants a "challenge"? The novelty of these little scuffles quickly wore off for me — now it's just tedious. It amazes me that some people enjoy it so much. Keep up if you want my help. I don't want to be stuck here all day.
Nothing better to do...
...What, were you expecting me to start the conversation? That's probably not going to happen. It's not so much that I have nothing to say... I just have nothing fun or positive to share.
If you really have nothing better to do, why don't you go find something for me to eat?
Good morning. A new day, a new life huh?
So, another ordinary day. Nothing wrong with that, I suppose. Thank you for trying to look out for me. Go get some rest. I'm not done with today just yet.
Many, many years ago, back when I still harbored the wish to become human, I prayed that I would one day be able to lead a normal life. I never did fulfill that wish, but that doesn't mean I'm here pining ever harder for it to come true.
The fact that things didn't work out doesn't make my past self a fool for hoping in vain that they would, does it?
Why are you so surprised? I have good moods every once in a while too, you know.
