You want me to introduce myself? I've gone by many names and titles during my journey. Although each one is more eminent than any ordinary mortal could imagine, they're all just water under the bridge to me now.
There's no need to exchange pleasantries. It's rather pathetic to force a conversation just to occupy silence.
You're so happy just to see the sun again? How childish.
You think I've got a sharp tongue? I just tell it like it is. If someone can't handle it, maybe that's their problem.
You want to use my hat as an umbrella? Hmph, the audacity to even make that request...
Huh. How irritating.
A simple breeze like this... Even you can conjure it, right?
Rise and shine, sleepyhead, the sun's already in your eyes! ...Haha, don't tell me you actually thought I'd wake you up like that?
I have no need for food. Save me the trouble and take care of yourself and that small thing floating next to you.
Finally, another boring day is drawing to a close.
What, can't fall asleep with me around? Hehe.
A puppet consumed by a raging fire will leave behind ashes. As for what will emerge from them...
I'll leave that kind of thing to fate. Obsessing over something that's destined to be ever out of one's reach is just a waste of time. I have more important things to attend to at the moment.
So, you're still stewing over our run-ins from before? Huh. Well, what are you going to do about it? Take your time. I'm in no hurry.
Although the idea of "divine favor" makes me a little ill, I'm not going to be picky about a new source of power. You think there's some kind of meaning behind the element of Anemo? Hah, why did that thought even occur to you?
The gods aren't guided by any kind of rationality or moral compass. Haven't I shown that to you already?
I'll never be one of the good guys. I'm just here to pay my dues after what you've done for me.
But what about you? Shouldn't you come up with some excuse for our meetings? If one of your friends mistakes you for collaborating with the enemy, you're on your own.
Look. The birds are showing off their plumage, the squirrels are busy hoarding food, and humans are laboring for their livelihoods. Truly, simple animals don't need anything complicated to be fulfilled.
While I still had value as a pawn, she might have had other reasons to keep me alive. It's certainly possible that it was because she's wise or benevolent, or happened to see a hint of loneliness within me... 
You think I'm trying to think the worst of her? Hah, did you really expect anything else? In case you've forgotten, I'm no saint.
You want to learn more about me? How ridiculous. Don't you know that's only asking for trouble?
She completely neglected her own creation, and to add insult to injury, she said it was because she "couldn't bring herself to intervene" in my fate...
Everyone praises her for her kindness and benevolence, but they forget that love is also a form of sin. What if she's just trying to compensate for something?
The Jester is a survivor of Khaenri'ah. Besides that singular fact, I know very little about him, and never had any kind of close association with him. He seems to want something from me, though.
In the past, he assigned to me many important tasks, including a number of trips to the Abyss.
"The ever-righteous Captain," "the brave and fearless Captain," "the nigh-invincible Captain"... Even my mechanical ears demand maintenance after listening to so many compliments from the members of the Fatui. 
Don't you think that possessing absolute righteousness is actually a latent danger? And that's without taking his great personal strength into account.
It's a pity that Lesser Lord Kusanali already forced him to erase so many of his segments. The joy I would have derived from slicing them apart one by one...
Let me ask: what should you do if you were to encounter a "damsel" who is oblivious and innocent at any given time, and unconcerned and unfeeling in any given situation? 
If it were me, I could at least challenge her to a fight. But if it were you... with your conscience, I would stay away from her.
A wolf in sheep's clothing. To exert a higher level of control over people, she puts on a graceful and cordial front. Most of those who have seen her true, crazy self... have gone poof.
Only someone as dense as Childe would think The Rooster is looking after him and his family out of the goodness of his heart. 
Although the mayor has indeed done a number of things for their benefit, anyone with a brain would be able to tell that the underlying meaning is "your entire family is in my hands."
She has a terrible personality and cares for nothing outside of her own research. But even with that amount of dedication, she still produced a copious amount of garbage, and could only secure a ranking that's still one whole place beneath my own. How pitiful.
Oh, the ninth-ranked guy. He's obsessed with the idea of "fair exchange," to the point of wanting to overthrow the natural imbalance between gods and humans. But, I guess it's just how ordinary mortals are like — it's easy for them to come up with pointless delusions. 
Honestly, it's nothing worth writing home about, just like how there's also nothing impressive about his abilities or choice of partner. Hmph. Anyone who chooses to work closely with The Doctor is sure to meet a nasty end.
He's simple of mind and not that strong of body. Naming him to the lowest-ranked seat lowered the Harbingers' collective prestige. Thankfully, I'm no longer part of that group.
Nothing remained in her ashes. I have no interest in those who have lost their future.
A smooth-talking youkai. Though she pretends to care about humans to gain the favor of her god, all she seeks are entertaining ways to pass her time.
You speak of the descendant of the Kaedehara clan? Then isn't he... Wait, he also possesses an Anemo Vision? ...And even managed to take on the Raiden Shogun's Musou no Hitotachi? Hehe... Ahahahaha!
What makes you think I know him? The fact that he's always following me around and asking for a closer look at my hat? We've barely spoken before. The first time we met, he came up and asked me if I was Hat Guy... 
Last time I checked, judging someone by their appearance is superficial. Hmph, somehow, everyone knows the name "Hat Guy" now...
Behold!
Oh, I'm well aware that many, many people will want to seek me out and settle the grudges they've built against me in my past life. Fine by me.
I once thought that deification would allow me to get rid of all of my pointless emotions, but I've since abandoned that view. Anger, whether it be from others or myself, is too convenient and useful as a tool.
How can some people just never become angry? I find that impossible to even imagine. Do they just not have a single mean bone in their bodies?
When I entered Irminsul, there was only one thought in my mind: I wish I'd never been born at all.
Irminsul responded to my wish, but didn't bring me the outcome I desired. The fate of this world hasn't changed a single bit when it comes to playing cruel tricks on its prisoners.
You and I have crossed paths in the past, but our journeys will eventually diverge. Who knows what will happen next? Let's just wait and see.
Hobbies? Those are for idle bodies who have the free time to think about such things. Do I look like I have any interest in distractions?
I'm trying to figure out a way to get rid of you so I can go commit atrocities. ...Wait, did you think I was being serious?
Do you have some tea? The more bitter, the better. It leaves the most fascinating aftertaste.
I'm no fan of Dango, or any other sticky sweets that make me feel like my teeth are fusing together. Keep them to yourself
It's okay. Guess this is one of the few things you're good at.
Not bad. You actually made something edible.
You wanna poison me? Are you so dumb as to have forgotten that I'm not human?
Give me your hand. Heh, there's no need to be nervous. I'm just taking you to a vantage point. How is it? The scenery here should be quite breathtaking. There's no need to thank me — I see little point in it.
The wind is blowing this way... What did you do?
You aren't worried about making me more powerful? ...Alright.
Although I can be of help to you, seeing me as an ally is still a dangerous endeavor. I hope you understand what you're doing. If you still insist on continuing down this path, then let me lead the way.
Cry louder!
Squall and fury!
The wind rises!
Wretched vermin!
Unsightly insects!
Bow your head!
Know your place!
You dare to gaze upon me!?
Surge forth!
Upon the gale!
...Too slow.
Quit following me!
Unnecessary.
Take it and have fun.
Hah, you even want this?
Nothing worth mentioning.
Why are you even here?
Worthless as expected.
The price... for my sins...
Everything... was futile...
Falling... into the abyss...
I'll have you beg for mercy.
Prepare yourself for punishment.
Haah-Mhm... Relax... Pfft! Hehehe...
...You're dead.
...How amusing.
That's far enough.
Huh... What do you want from me?
This had better be important.
Are you sure it has to be me? ...Fine, let's get this over with.
Look at that, hot on my heels. You know, you didn't have to cut your catch-up short just to keep me company.
I understand that prisoners have to put up with harassment from the guards, but right now, I'm on temporary release, so maybe you should think about backing off a little.
Sometimes it's you using them, other times it's them using you. Most human relationships are this way... certainly all the stable ones are. That's how it was between me and the Fatui, and also between each of the Harbingers.
What did you expect? Why do you think Sumeru would keep me around otherwise? ...Or maybe killing me is all you can think about?
There's a time and a place to lie, but this definitely isn't it. So why don't you relax your guard a little?
Right now, we have to keep the peace. I'm not interested in creating more misery for myself, and making cordial conversation is something I can manage.
...Are you worried about me? If we didn't have such a history, I'd almost think that qualifies me to be your friend.
From this day forth, the names "Balladeer" and "kabukimono" will cease to exist ...Those who died in Tatarasuna because of me deserve another chance at life.
You know, I never did like insects. Hordes of the puny things swarming together can be a real nuisance... and I enjoy nothing more than to stamp them out like the pests they are.
But if a colony of harmless ants isn't threatening anyone, I guess they deserve to be left alone... Luckily, everything can be set right. It's time to solve this once and for all.
...Look, I'm just a wanderer. But seeing as you've gone to all this trouble to track me down, I'm sure whatever it is must be important.
You want to tell me, but you can't bring yourselves to say it. Looks like I didn't have the most wonderful existence in my previous incarnation.
I gave everything I had, but it barely changed history at all.
...I don't think I can judge everything I've heard purely in terms of right and wrong. Each choice a person makes belongs to a specific place and time, a chain of cause and effect... a cycle of karma and consequence.
I'm just a puppet, with no heart and no name. There is nothing in this world for me to cling to, to fill the void within me... except maybe these sins that can never be undone.
...Time to face the music.
No matter what lies ahead, I'll face it. Whatever it takes. I'm just sorry that you have to join me for the whole thing.
I was abandoned, like you. I lived here for a while at first, but... There's nothing for us here. We can't stay...
...You promised me we could be family! You're no different from Niwa and all the others... You betrayed me too. Haha...
I'm sure you think so, but I still think you need to hear it: Don't start thinking you're invincible. And don't let your emotions get in the way.
I'm under no obligation to be nice to you. Besides, I thought nothing mattered to you except results and your own interests.
You're about as much fun to be around as a raging inferno. But before we murder each other, it'd be best if we finish our duties.
You're a god... Do you think I'm evil?
That was gracefully worded. Ever wonder what they'd think if they knew that nothing matters to you apart from your crazy experiments?
In your eyes, are there any differences between humans and puppets?
I've seen enough of my past. If possible, I'd like to reclaim the sins that are mine to bear. No matter the consequences, I won't run from blame or punishment. Whatever I am due, let it come to pass.
I've always believed that human lives follow a set of rules, with each person being a collection of past experiences. As a puppet living in the human world, my life is subject to the same rules.
I've lived with a void in my chest my whole life. My creator didn't need me, and ever since I awoke, I've just drifted from one place to the next. But then I met you, and I finally realized that reclaiming my missing sins might be my one opportunity to become my true self.
So I beg you... grant me this opportunity to gain a purpose. To change my destiny and end my wandering.
Have you got any more stupid questions!?
Imbecile! Get out of my sight! 
It's fine. Let them stab their blades into my chest if they so desire. ...Maybe that's how it always should have been.
Hah. Barely two words in and you already look like you want me dead.
You're getting all worked up over nothing. Pff, you've changed... You're getting weak.
How can you call it anything more? It's the way of the world. Human life is worthless. They were always going to die, with or without a Delusion. At least having one gives them a chance to fulfill their ambitions.
For just a small price, they get the feeling of controlling the world. Trading their life for supreme power... pretty good deal, don't you think?
Just like a bubble on the water. Beautiful for a moment, then total destruction.
The more it takes from them, the more tightly they hold onto it. And the more incompetent they are, the more determined they are to fight it! Hahaha, it's such a farce, you have to see the funny side.
Hahaha... That's it, just like that! Embrace the anger... Embrace it!
It took three betrayals for me to finally understand: The world is just an elaborate tapestry of lies. 
My fury will never be quelled.
The first to betray me was a god. My creator... my mother. Valuing strength above all, she saw no worth in me, and I was discarded.
The second was a human. My family... my friend. Consumed by fear, he saw me as an abomination.
The third was one exactly like me. A hope for the future... a fledgling barely out of the nest. Powerless before his mortality, he broke his promise to me.
Humans... they can't be trusted. And the gods fill me with pure loathing. So I said good riddance! I denounce the world and laugh in its face. 
My chest will never again be defiled by worldly filth. I will scrub away every last trace of human emotion. Then it will be empty, a blank slate.
And ready to receive a supreme Gnosis, brimming with pure divinity
Hehehe... Ahahahaha! There is no need to fear. The pain will be brief... Your era... is coming to an end.
But this also shows that humanity's worship of gods is a combination of blasphemy and exaltation. It's truly laughable.
I was born to become a god. My entire life up until this point has just been a meaningless routine.
Just think about a sheet of paper... By itself, it holds no meaning. The content recorded on it is what gives it value. All "I" had recorded down before were some painful memories and boring human feelings. Such senseless drivel should have been erased a long time ago.
Indeed, to me, the sight of you fools and your futile struggles is far more amusing. Tell me, just what has this world done for you to protect it with such zest and conviction?
It is an honor for you to be able to stand here and speak with me. As my listener, you will be rewarded. Both good things and bad things can be called gifts. After all, gods have never needed to be reasonable.
When my spirit ascended to divinity. I felt as if I had existed for the same number of epochs as heaven and earth. Looking back, the existence of what once called itself "Kunikuzushi" appears infinitely small and ugly.
Who would have thought... The world would be so eager for my "birth"
Do you not realize... that you are interrupting a conversation between gods? Lowly creature, know your place!
Strife is engraved upon every god and every Gnosis brought forth into this world. Can you feel it? The exhilaration of such power, and the thrill of anticipation for our contention...
Hmph. Your judgment is as your existence: unsubstantial.
Let us reenact a scene of the Archon War. Come and inaugurate my birth as a god.
This is supposed to be a battle between gods, yet you choose to hide behind a mortal
Save it. No more fun and games for me today. I'll come for you when I'm good and ready.
The stars, the sky... It's all a gigantic hoax. A lie.
So long, suckers!
Just call me Hat Guy. That's the name I use in Vahumana.
You two sure like to poke your noses where they don't belong. If I don't say anything, are you going to annoy me to death?
...I heard that the Vahumana researcher named Aqaba was researching the Tatarasuna incident, so I wrote a few essays to refute his points. Later, when I was bored, I wrote some commentary on societal issues in Inazuma. I didn't expect Vahumana to consider me as one of them.
Someone even invited me to a lecture or whatever.
From start to finish, it was just the wishful thinking of idiots — a misunderstanding. There's your answer. Simple.
Someone's about to get very unlucky — wanna guess who?
Do you really think you can see through me?
You're overthinking it. Power is just a tool. It just seems to me that you don't have the resolve to win this. Well, suit yourself. Wallow in your immature ideals if you like.
Is there really any need for me to take part while everyone's running around like it's some sort of carnival? Don't worry, I'll get involved once things actually get serious.
This seems more annoying than the last round. That's fine, though — I'll find someplace to sit and watch them scurry.
You two must have a lot of free time if you came looking for me.
You should be thrilled that I have nothing to do. Otherwise, that means someone's in for a very, very bad day.
It's not like I care about winning or clout. Really, the real prize for me is watching all these people fight over something so useless.
Hah, I don't remember signing up to become a scholar. Don't you think I'm useful enough to you as a prisoner?
Morning, sunshine. You were having a nice little dream there, weren't you? Not gonna lie, it was kind of adorable.
Sorry to break it to you, but crashing into the ground doesn't take you to another world. That kind of thing only happens in those stupid light novels they sell in Inazuma.
The "Hero's Sword," meant to be wielded by the hero... I know, me of all people, right? The irony.
Hah, you expect me to take orders from some disembodied voice?
Have you ever considered keeping your questions to yourself? Because if you actually expect me to answer them all, we'll be here until the next Interdarshan Championship.
Reckless idiots...
Prepare for a final battle. Sometimes... it takes a little force for someone to finally wake up.
Tch... Stubborn beast. You really wanna get beat up that bad?
Hmph... More boring "fate" talk.
So, that's it? That's really your wish? "To never have been born at all"... That's not a fate you should wish for.
Nobody can define who you are... Or deny the true feelings of your heart. Now, remember your name— ...Durin. It's alright now...
When I first came to this world, a voice spoke to me and said, "You are the Hero of this world. Now go forth, and save the dragon."
Anyone with eyes can see that all you want to do is get along with everyone.
You just want to make friends. People to play with, to talk to... People who accept you, or at least... accept your apology.
...I, the Hero of this world, give you my blessing. I recognize you as a resident of Simulanka... May you find acceptance in this world.
Also... Speaking as someone who'd like to be your friend, I wish you all the best for the future.
That's simple — just go out there and atone. You could fill in the footprints you left on the ground, or help the people around the Broken Sea get home.
Lying to you would be no fun anyway.
Well, that's a nuisance.
Huh? What's this got to do with me?
Why would I be? Do I strike you as someone who cares about other people's issues?
Quit trying to guess what I'm thinking. I'm leaving.
...It'll be up to you to stick close. If you disappear on me, don't expect me to come looking. 
Yeah, well maybe I needed some space after being cooped up in there for so long. Anyway, it's a school, not a prison, so what's the problem?
Shut up. Not another word.
...I've told you already. Stop trying to read my mind.
...So annoying.
Call me whatever you like. Go ahead, let me see what you can come up with. Don't disappoint me.
You think I've got a sharp tongue? I just tell it like it is. If someone can't handle it, maybe that's their problem.
There's no such thing as pure freedom in this world. Even the wind cannot blow on forever.
Fundamentally speaking, there's little difference between snow and rain, yet people lavish praise only upon the former... Fate can be truly arbitrary.
A puppet consumed by a raging fire will leave behind ashes. As for what will emerge from them...
I'll never be one of the good guys. I'm just here to pay my dues after what you've done for me.
But what about you? Shouldn't you come up with some excuse for our meetings? If one of your friends mistakes you for collaborating with the enemy, you're on your own.
Although the idea of "divine favor" makes me a little ill, I'm not going to be picky about a new source of power.
I've got nothing. Ask me anything if you want. If a question is interesting enough, I may give you an answer.
Not long ago, Lesser Lord Kusanali kept asking me to visit the Akademiya, to borrow books or attend lectures to immerse in the academic atmosphere. I was annoyed by this and wandered around the wilderness, but she still managed to find me.
She said she understood that I don't like being around others, but it can be very painful being alone all the time. She also said at least I could see you if I bring you something on my birthday. But why should I give someone a present when it's my birthday? How absurd.
We ended up making a lot of food that is not to my taste, so I'm definitely not eating them. You can take the rest, eat it if you like it, throw it away if you don't. I have no interest in knowing what you do with it, you don't have to tell me.
But their little joke did remind me that on this day, there is someone I need to give a gift to. Since I'm the one picking the gift, I'll choose it based on my own preferences. If you've got any opinions, you'd best tell me in person.
Lately, there's always been a gaggle of students sneaking around and gossiping behind my back. One glare, and they'd scatter and hide.
And would you believe it? Just when I was hiding out in the wild, seeking some peace and quiet, they jumped out of some bushes holding a cake that anyone could see was sickeningly sweet. It's so incredibly ridiculous that I had to laugh.
You call crushing ants a "challenge"? The novelty of these little scuffles quickly wore off for me — now it's just tedious. It amazes me that some people enjoy it so much. Keep up if you want my help. I don't want to be stuck here all day.
Nothing better to do...
...What, were you expecting me to start the conversation? That's probably not going to happen. It's not so much that I have nothing to say... I just have nothing fun or positive to share.
If you really have nothing better to do, why don't you go find something for me to eat?
Good morning. A new day, a new life huh?
So, another ordinary day. Nothing wrong with that, I suppose. Thank you for trying to look out for me. Go get some rest. I'm not done with today just yet.
Many, many years ago, back when I still harbored the wish to become human, I prayed that I would one day be able to lead a normal life. I never did fulfill that wish, but that doesn't mean I'm here pining ever harder for it to come true.
The fact that things didn't work out doesn't make my past self a fool for hoping in vain that they would, does it?
Why are you so surprised? I have good moods every once in a while too, you know.
Nothing better to do...
A new day...
Huh...
Oh, it's you. I must apologize. I nearly mistook you for the type to leave your guests alone to fend for themselves.
...
Hey, you own this place. What are you so nervous about? It's not a good look.
Hmph.
...It's nothing. I was just thinking about something inane. In your, uh... realm, some areas are completely empty.
You're right. Look at me, coming around here, criticizing your lifestyle choices. It's generous of you to host me in your home. The least I could do is be grateful.
I get it. There are always going to be those things that are just beyond our ability to manage.
...What, were you expecting me to start the conversation? That's probably not going to happen.
You make it sound like that's some kind of achievement... I'm pretty frank with everyone nowadays.
Do you know why I'm so fond of tea? When I drank tea for the first time, all I tasted was bitterness. No matter how much I tried to drink, there was no sign of any kind of sweet aftertaste.
At that time, I was sitting awkwardly by some bladesmiths. I was ignorant about the conventions for human conversation and their ways of life. 
Someone poured out a cup for me, and for lack of anything else to do, I accepted it. Ended up downing one cup, then another, and then another...
With some things, they improve over time. With other things, the most you can do is to maintain the status quo.
This is your home. Arrange it as you wish. I'm just another person passing through.
You have the prerogative as the owner of this place. Let's hear it.
Hahaha... Now that I think back on it, they probably thought I genuinely liked to drink the stuff.
...And now that I've had a taste of just about every flavor in this world, I've found that actually... bitterness is the one I like best.
Spices are just added extras to mask a bland base, and all sweetness does is make the ugly truth easier to stomach... But bitterness is the true flavor of life. Raw and unadulterated.
I don't care for dressing things up to make them more palatable. Life is about learning to handle the truth.
Bitterness is what it is. It doesn't change because of what comes before or after it.
There's no need to kid yourself into thinking that a bitter cup of tea will have a sweet aftertaste.
Why — you planning on helping me do it? Whatever it is?
In that case, I need to give this some thought. I wanna find out exactly where that line is... and then see how far you can be persuaded to bend it...
Kidding. Although the expression on your face was priceless, I'm not in the business to make you suffer just for my amusement.
But I've always found dinner tables to be extremely fascinating. Everyone's got their own agenda, but they all have to pretend to be cordial and considerate.
Ah... what I wouldn't give to take you to one of the Harbingers' banquets. Hah, the extreme lengths they'll go to to get out of the missions they dislike...
Hehe, it's truly a pity that only the two of us are here. A party of two won't have any good drama.
Anyway, I'm not picky, so I'll eat whatever you make.
Why don't you make some of your personal favorites? So even if it gets painfully awkward during our meal, we can still at least enjoy the food.
...Okay, my mistake. 
That wasn't an apology!
I was just conceding an error in my judgment.
Anyway, it's probably a good thing that you have a mean streak.
I don't think I could stand to be around you if you were completely incorruptible.
Good morning.
So, another ordinary day. Nothing wrong with that, I suppose.
Many, many years ago, back when I still harbored the wish to become human, I prayed that I would one day be able to lead a normal life.
I never did fulfill that wish, but that doesn't mean I'm here pining ever harder for it to come true. Still... the fact that things didn't work out doesn't make my past self a fool for hoping in vain that they would, does it?
I always found the forests in Inazuma too gloomy, and the ones in Snezhnaya too frigid. This one, though — seems warm, humid, teeming with life... Nothing to make me hate it so far.
A cabbage that... moves?
...It's tasteless.
This place is quite different from Inazuma... It is green as far as the eye can see. Now that I'm here, I should probably take a look around.
Who did you just call a servant?
Now you're over-explaining.
Suit yourself.
I only heard it in a memory. So don't hold me to it.
...Alright. I'll be right there.
Nothing.
Let's go with "The Durin."
...Huh?
...I'm assuming I'll have to be your bodyguard while we're there?
...It'll be up to you to stick close. If you disappear on me, don't expect me to come looking.
Are you done yet? If you want to leave, then get over here.
Ugh...
Hah... I go out of my way to save four people who fall out of the sky, and now you're nitpicking my choice of soft landing? That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
You and your friends fell from the top of that waterfall, and you passed out along the way. Guess someone couldn't keep it together...
The fog you see around here can have a hallucinatory effect. Apparently, it's the work of that dragon. Maybe you inhaled some while you were freaking out on your way down...
Sure, whatever.
Tch, an unwelcome encumbrance, that's what... I've had it ever since I woke up here. Tried to toss it, but no matter what I do, it always reappears. Such a pain...
Anyway, if any of you want the "Hero's Sword," you can have it.
Will you calm down? It's just a dumb title.
Well, if it means that much to you, you're welcome to claim the title. You'd be doing me a favor.
Looking for a way out. I heard there's a boat in this area that can bring you to another world, so I came to investigate.
But look at the state of things around here — the lighthouse collapsed, the boat won't budge... I say we try to find a different way out.
To find the so-called "source of this world's misfortune" — the dragon responsible for this whole mess.
...Tch. Grab that dragon scale over there before you leave. It'll come in handy later.
What are you looking at me for? He's obviously talking to you.
Tch...
Should've never had the useless thing to begin with.
Well? How long are you gonna keep us waiting?
...Ugh. How many times am I going to have to save you?
Just keep walking, and don't fall behind.
He's had year after year of people coming here to try to take his head. If you ask me, his reaction is perfectly normal.
I wouldn't count on it. Maybe his earlier attacks were just a warning, but now, he's actually getting serious.
...Are we really gonna have to throw a bomb in its mouth?
Watch out! If you fall, you're on your own this time!
What are you waiting for?
...?
Are we... inside the black mist? ...Huh? I see something up ahead.
So, in the end, you were "betrayed," too...
So, you're hated by people, too...
So, that's it? That's really your wish?
"To never have been born at all"... That's not a fate you should wish for.
Created, you say... Heh...
Come with me. The answer to all of this can be found below.She created the story of Durin. Well, the Simulanka version, at least. These records should cover most of what you want to know, including the identities of the other two Goddesses. Read them for yourselves.
That's right. It belongs to the Goddess of Fate. Or more precisely, "M." One of the Mages of the Hexenzirkel.
...It's alright now, Durin. Nobody here wants to hurt you.
So that's why you made that wish? ... So stupid...
Huh? Why would I do that?
You little...! Gah, well maybe I spoke too soon!
Alright, fine! I'll go with you!
Let's go back up. I'm about to suffocate down here.
Stop looking at me. I already said I'll come with you!
Seriously? I think you can stop calling me that now.
And after all that, the person Sachin chose, turned his nose up at his life's work. Pretty hilarious.
That wasn't necessary. I'm still paying you back for your help, and the last thing I need is more reasons to be indebted to you.
That was a long speech. So what are you actually going to do with these research materials?
Hmph, Vahumana doesn't have that kind of talent... Wait, you're not intending to keep me in Vahumana long-term, are you?
...Tsk.
Humans, such fragile beings. Your bodies can't even survive extreme changes in the environment.
Oh, you've reminded me of something. There shouldn't be any more incidents after this round. If you'll excuse me, I have somewhere to be.
Hmph, I see. Twenty years ago...
These introductions are pointless. Let's just get this over with.
So I can't go by a simple, ordinary name?
You could be matra for all I care. So what if I don't answer you? What then?
Hmph, I'll tell you this much: I have an agreement with someone not to reveal my motives.
Well, it's hard to say. Why don't you take a guess?
But when Lesser Lord Kusanali heard about this, she went out of her way to get me registered in Vahumana... She used the name "Hat Guy."
Enough chit-chat. You're better off wasting your time with the other contestants.
Enjoy the Interdarshan Championship. This will be one to remember, I'm sure.
Do you really think you can see through me?
...Hmph.
Aren't people who research the stars supposed to have some extraordinary abilities? Why not use astrology to solve it?
Is it that you can't use astrology during the day? Huh, guess that skill's less useful than I thought.
Let me find a good place to...
What brings you two here?
It feels like... I've lived two lives.
It's fine. But I was just thinking, I should probably change it.
After learning about everything The Doctor did, there's no way I can carry on using a name connected to him.
I'm not planning on returning to the Fatui, and they wouldn't take me back anyway. Recent events will have affected a lot of people, and they might not even remember who the sixth is.
It's like you said, Lesser Lord Kusanali. Everything may look futile, but it wasn't completely meaningless. At least I made a lot of people forget about me.
...Indeed. Haha, how ridiculous.
Even if I'm completely worthless, there's nothing in the world worth regretting.
Lesser Lord Kusanali, you purposely left that information in Irminsul, didn't you?
Why would you go to such lengths? You trying to win me over too?
...Very clever.
Utility to others is what gives me worth. So if embracing my sins is what it takes to make me useful again, so be it.
Oh right, I almost forgot... you're the good guys. You're into justice and all that.
Sorry if I have a slightly different perspective on things. But, I don't feel like I've been duped. The wisest leaders are fated to end up with the best helpers... I can live with that.
After I dove into the information torrents in Irminsul, why did you go to Inazuma?
...So that's how you found out whose fate had changed, and how. Well, whatever your reasons, you did me a favor, and I'll do everything I can to pay it back.
Borrowing and returning are the only real relationships between individuals. I'll balance the books one day, don't you worry.
But humans can't live without a heart, can they? Anyway, I gave up trying to become a human a long time ago.
It sounds like you've got a future planned out for me.
...Then I guess I'll be helping you from behind the scenes from now on.
Why?
Hmph. Then I hope we don't see much of each other in the future.
Have you got anything?
...This is a bad idea.
You can't be serious.
Is this supposed to be your attempt at a joke?
...Hmph. I have no need for these names anymore.
That won't work.
You want to share your name with me? Huh, not a bad choice.
...Ah, alright, if you say so.
What about a nickname? Are you done yet?
Take your time. I don't need to see you again until you've thought of one.
Everyone who manipulated me and made me suffer will have to pay the price.
One more thing. There are still some descendants of the Raiden Gokaden living in Inazuma. Some of them know... Well, they ought to know about the connection between the Raiden Gokaden and myself.
I don't plan to leave Sumeru for the time being. If you see them in Inazuma, please tell them that I was the one responsible for the Raiden Gokaden's downfall.
...Even though the events have been erased from the world, they still deserve to know the truth.
What's that look for? Don't make that face, I know what I'm doing.
...That day will come. Alright, we're done here.
Hehe, no nonsense. I like it. ...Alright, let's call it a day.
Goodbye, wise deity, and you two.
I ran into him out in the wilderness during a storm, and he let me take shelter in his cart. In return, I said I'd be his helper for a while.
Something's come up, and they need to borrow me. Sorry, Boss, I'm afraid I'll be away from the stall for a while.
What?
Uh...
Then I suppose this is where we say goodbye. Thank you again for taking me into the city.
...Hello, I do apologize for the sudden intrusion...
Well, it seems more relevant in my case... To me, it sounds like a plant with no roots.
But these two claim that they know me, and that I have a hidden past unknown even to myself.
Lesser Lord Kusanali. As the God of Wisdom, I trust that everything you told me must be true?
Don't worry. Whatever danger I might face, it's my burden to bear.
Please. I want to see them for myself. I want to experience my own transgressions.
But you can't. You promised me.
...Hey! Wh—What's wrong...? Say something!!!
You do realize you're blocking my path?
...Oh, okay, I see.
I've always felt I have an innate tendency to yearn for something more, in a way that goes deeper than for most people... But for all my soul-searching as a shugenja, I've never fully understood it. Looking at it now, it seems that I brought this curse upon myself.
The voices have gone. It looks like the memory ends here.
...Are you trying to win me over?
Well, well, my fair lady, is this run-down factory and these incompetent fools all for me? Wow, you shouldn't have.
...Heh, what a sharp tongue you have.
Funny how negotiating never seems to be your strong suit. For the task ahead, I suggest you keep your true feelings to yourself.
I just can't have you getting in my way. You and Childe never fail to find ways to complicate things.
..."Poor little tongue"? Hahaha... She's playing with fire talking to me like that. Who does she think she is?
...Forget it. Someone might find me here any minute now. I should prepare to give them a warm welcome.
...Yes, please don't worry about me.
I'm under no obligation to be nice to you. Besides, I thought nothing mattered to you except results and your own interests. Isn't that right... witch?
Nothing worse than what I've been through before then, Doctor?
That was gracefully worded. Ever wonder what they'd think if they knew that nothing matters to you apart from your crazy experiments?
All worthless dross will be purged.
...This won't be the end!
Die!
Ugh, how... how can I fall here!?
Have you got any more stupid questions!?
...This is trying my patience.
What did you expect? I'd never lose to that.
But don't worry. Thanks to you, even if I didn't change a thing... at least I now know the truth.
I think you've got the wrong idea. I know how this looks, but I'm just here to follow orders.
I'm The Balladeer, No. 6 of the Fatui Harbingers. Delighted to meet you, O Mighty Traveler.
I'm obviously not the mastermind behind this. Aren't you supposed to be pretty tough? What are you waiting for, go get them.
From the outside, Inazuma looks pretty impenetrable, but on the inside... it's a land of opportunity. With a little effort, we were able to break them down from within.
The reason why there are records about your sister in Irminsul... It might have something to do with Khaenri'ah. Apparently, Khaenri'ah was her first destination when she arrived in this world. Plus, she only came to this world because the heavens responded to the summoning.
Eternity stretches things out over a long time. But each moment within it becomes all the more fragile.
I remember you. Buer, the God of Wisdom. And standing beside you... the Traveler.
"The Balladeer," A long bygone title. When my spirit ascended to divinity, I felt as if I had existed for the same number of epochs as heaven and earth.
This is a first — encountering a god in this world who does not crave power.
This is where everything ends, Buer, the God of Wisdom.
You should know that wisdom cannot solve every problem. Like now, where your only option is to face me in combat.
This is supposed to be a battle between gods, yet you choose to hide behind a mortal. And now, you're acting like you'd sacrifice yourself for a human... Are you having fun proving a false sense of heroism to yourself, Buer?
The power of dreams... When did you use it on me...
You can't even defeat me in a dream. What do you hope to achieve with this little trick?
Meaningless tricks won't save you!
Heh... Are you done with your tricks? Can I finally take this as a real battle between gods?
Humans... filthy humans...! No! Wait! Please Anything but the Gnosis...! That's mine! Don't even try...! I'll never... I'll never go back!
Ah, so if it were up to you, you'd finish the job? Guess I had you all wrong. There I was thinking you were just getting cold feet.
Haha, it's not every day you see people questioning the God of Wisdom's judgment. Just when you think you've seen it all.
Well, I for one have no reason to doubt you, considering you even struck a deal with The Doctor.
So as long as you have some value to offer, nobody will ever abandon you. But after recent events, even I have to admit that I'm not worth quite what I used to be...
The Jester told me this himself. You can take his word on this. He was a royal mage in Khaenri'ah, and lived with your sister for a time. I don't know the details. It's up to you whether you want to believe me. All I can say is, I wouldn't lie to you about this.
I think these two have made their objection to that idea fairly clear, don't you? And they're your friends, so I guess you'll be siding with them.
Look at that, hot on my heels. You know, you didn't have to cut your catch-up short just to keep me company. Oh, but I guess you panicked when you realized that I might enter Irminsul ahead of you.
Let's cut each other a little slack, shall we? We are gonna be traveling together, after all.
Per my agreement with Lesser Lord Kusanali, I'll be at the front. It's my job to lead the way and get rid of any obstacles in our path. All you have to do is keep your pretty eyes open and try not to fall behind.
If there are no further objections, I suggest we get going. Or did you need some time to mentally prepare yourselves?
Irminsul is closely intertwined with the entirety of Teyvat. Every bit of information flowing here means something.
I was just imagining the look on your travel companion's face if you went and got lost.
Anything's possible in here — you can't rule anything out. So if you wanna stay safe, your best option is to stick close to me.
Those are all packets of information from inside Irminsul. Be careful not to touch them.
Hehe.
Must be a riveting conversation you three are having. Funny how all the good ones happen when I'm not involved.
Don't insult me. You're having a private conversation without me. Obviously, I must be the topic of said conversation.
Of course you do. You can't have your prisoner knowing too much.
Still looking. Don't get your hopes up, though. You and your twin come from outside this world. It wouldn't surprise me if there was nothing on either of you in Irminsul at all.
Nothing. I was just thanking him for helping me.
It's not like we've never met before. And anyway, you're world-famous. It'd be more surprising if I didn't know a few things about you.
...Huh? Wait... ...Anonymous data? Shush. Just wait.
...Dottore? Hahaha... Dottore!!!
Maybe so... But it means nothing.
...Dottore, you brazen-faced...! Niwa didn't run from justice... you killed him!
But unfortunately, there's no information about the Descenders in Irminsul.
It won't. I'll keep my end of the deal.
You look really upset... Heh, well, since Irminsul was a dead end, I guess I can share some other info that might interest you.
The reason why there are records about your brother‍ in Irminsul... It might have something to do with Khaenri'ah. Apparently, Khaenri'ah was his‍ first destination when he‍ arrived in this world. Plus, he‍ only came to this world because the heavens responded to the summoning.
The Jester told me this himself. You can take his word on this. He was a royal mage in Khaenri'ah, and lived with your brother‍ for a time. I don't know the details. It's up to you whether you want to believe me. All I can say is, I wouldn't lie to you about this.
Does this info count towards my mission? It wasn't from Irminsul, but was it valuable?
Good. In that case... I'll take some time for myself now.
Lesser Lord Kusanali was right: My power's all but completely spent.
Even if I use all of the divine power left in me, I can't sustain this shield for very long. Traveler, I shared a secret with you, and now you owe me. So, in return, I'd like you to answer a question for me. Give me your hand.
I can't do anything like that anymore. At most, all I can do is exchange a few words with you. So tell me: In this world, is it possible... to change the past?
Nothing. I was just thanking her‍ for helping me.
So long. I suggest you get yourselves out of here quickly.
Fast reaction time. But I don't think we'll be seeing each other again. From this day forth, the names "Balladeer" and "kabukimono" will cease to exist. ...Those who died in Tatarasuna because of me deserve another chance at life.
Tell her this. My name is Kunikuzushi.
If by "meteorite" you mean the rock that struck the cart — worry not, I have dealt with that already using my magic.
I am a vagrant from Inazuma. I had just stopped to assist this poor gentlemen when you turned up.
It was truly a pleasure to meet you all. I have other matters to attend to now, so I shall take my leave. Adventurers... I wish you every success in your endeavors.
The first time, the Millelith were present I had to forego the chance to strike down Mondstadt's savior. This time was the perfect moment... I was mere seconds away...
Are you deaf, or just stupid? When did I give you the right... to issue your own orders?
I can see that she was looking for a chance to make my life more fulfilling, but has she ever stopped to think about what an "experience" it is for others to meet me?
Some Vahumana students were trying to push some book recommendations onto me. I don't have anything else to do, so I'm just idly flipping through them.
No need. Nobody bothers me here. Some peacefulness is nice for a change.
...Tsk. The little thing's hobbies are so predictable.
Good luck with that.
It's fine. I don't need any more sugar.
Two big strong Fatui. Asking me to be their chaperone... is this some kind of joke?
I look forward to that. Sadly... you won't be there to see it!
What a waste of space... Just as useless alive or dead
We're done here. Next time you're looking for directions... I suggest you find your own way.
You were looking for trouble. No one to blame but yourselves.
Once more... I have lost my heart. It hurts. My skin feels like it's on fire, burning me alive... turning me to ash. 
How dare you die like this... And break your promise to me...
Probably ashes in the shape of a heart... But that's not a real heart.
What a joke... it's just ashes... nothing left but ashes. If only I could have burned to death in that fire too... No, in fact... I wish I'd never been born at all.
"Never been born at all"... Is that really all you wish for?
Bow before me, worm!
Let it be known that divinity is mine.
Insignificant pest!
Perish!
At my command, you shall fall!
Worthless insect...
Your shadow has faded, Beelzebul.
Feeble human!
A thousand eons, mine to dominate!
Good riddance, cruel world!
I am the all-knowing god!
Godhood is mine now, Beelzebul.
Your new god awakens!
Not... possible...
Kneel!
Burn to oblivion!
Reality is pain!
Tremble!
You filth!
Now, your eyes have been opened.
I was... destined for more...
I can't... lose it all again...
You cannot defy me, mortal!
Oh? Now this is a first. Who goes to the Akademiya in the middle of a festival?
This is the only place where I can escape all the commotion.
Do I strike you as someone who wants to hold hands and dance with everyone?
Go have your fun, and don't tell anyone you saw me here.
These festivals don't come by often, so you might as well let me enjoy it in my own way.
Ugh, so loud...
And you must be the General Mahamatra. Don't tell me you're also in the habit of convincing people to go to festivals...
No.
I don't play.
Did he seriously think that was funny?
Heh, I don't remember doing anything worth getting invited. It's just another noisy room of people... Not my scene.
You'd think someone from the "Temple of Silence" would know when to stop talking...
...You told them where I was?
For the love of... Fine. Show me the way.
What a nuisance...
Let's part ways here. I have an old score of my own to settle...
Introductions are overrated — especially in cases like this.
So? It's not like the Akademiya has prohibitions against going abroad. Also, I applied for leave.
Hmph...
And I'm a Driyosh from the Vahumana Darshan of the Sumeru Akademiya... Hat Guy.
Mmm. Mind you, the only reason I came here is because there's someone I want to look into.
The Doctor, also known as Dottore. Second of the Fatui Harbingers.
...I was reviewing our archives and noticed that a lot of information about him was missing. Left a bad taste in my mouth. That's all there is to it.
Dottore... or Zandik as he was then known, once studied at the Akademiya. But he got kicked out before he could graduate.
He only appears when something interests him. For all we know, he might have left already.
But the fact that he did something here at all is worth noting... It'll fill a couple extra lines in his file.
Sure.
Hmph. I got it.
Hmm?
Well yeah, that's obviously part of it. But I'm not the only one who has a score to settle with him.
Neither you, nor Lesser Lord Kusanali, nor I want to see him meddling with things again.
Hah. What's the hurry?
Don't worry. Pigeons always know which way home is.
I believe this will prove my identity. You'll notice it bears the seal of the Sanctuary of Surasthana.
It's fine. I expected as much.
If anyone asks, I am here in Nod-Krai to pursue my personal academic interests.
He never lets anyone in on his plans. The more he cares about something, the more secretive he gets.
But doesn't he have a track record of publicly following orders while going against them in private? He probably has it down to a fine art by now.
He also strikes me as the kind of person to disregard experimental regulations, ruin all the equipment, and go way over budget... then leave the first person he can find to deal with the fallout.
Thank you, Lady Harbingers, for providing such valuable information. I have no other questions for now, so I'll be on my way.
You're welcome to join if you want.
Here you are.
Fine. Dottore's been summoned home by the Tsaritsa. Couldn't get much more than that.
How about you? Any progress with the investigation?
...That's just meaningless speculation.
The events of the past are like fate that has been written into Irminsul. There isn't a living thing in Teyvat that can escape its past...
It's an impossible task. Can't you just refuse?
But you also said that your past thirty-nine attempts were fruitless.
But you're still going?
After this many futile attempts, surely you realize that you're not doing this because you still believe what some mage told you.
It's because you want her hypothesis to come true. It's something you wish for deep inside.
So, think for yourself about what you want to do. As long as you don't believe it's futile, it isn't.
Same thought here. Following the same rules means repeating the same failures — reducing ourselves to mere playthings of fate.
Yes. And I suspect that's something only you are capable of.
Everything in Teyvat is logged in Irminsul, but The Withering that once occurred in Sumeru was a sign that that great world tree was being corrupted.
No one's ever tried it before. If you're gonna try it, it'll take courage, and you have to be confident that you can control it.
To intimidate and obstruct... Hmph. Sounds about right for the Abyss.
Don't celebrate too soon. Follow him, see what he does next.
Quickly, let's keep up.
There's still a chance, Durin. Use the traps.
Durin, just like last time! Use the explosives!
It might not be the only one. Better he misses that clue than loses his life.
Stop him, Durin. We can't let him get any further in.
Yes, it is.
Experience says fifteen to twenty minutes.
Now's not the time for you to start pitying us.
I've never heard that name.
Sumeru's a lot more uptight. Not really the kind of place where you can relax. It's a nation fraught with problems wherever you look.
But if all you want in life is to seek knowledge, I guess it's pretty much paradise.
"May your wishes come true"... If only it were so simple.
Hmm?
I've told you about myself. I'm a student at the Akademiya.
Prepared for the entrance exam.
I was a puppet built from the branches of a white tree, using technology left behind by the Khaenri'ahn schools of mechanical engineering.
Yes. A branch of Irminsul that was once connected to the main tree.
Yeah. But my creator abandoned me after deciding that I was a failure.
Durin, resisting the influence of the Abyss, suppressing the urge to destroy, trying to do the right thing... None of these things are easy.
But no matter how hard they are, trying to rewrite past wrongs is far harder.
You asked me if you would create a new tragedy if you failed. I told you there was no point speculating about that.
But the real answer is... Yes. You absolutely will.
But at least you've got people here to help steer you away from the wrong path. So... just keep aiming towards the light.
Alright. Break time's over.
Enjoy the time off while it lasts. I have a feeling that our next task won't be so simple.
No.
You said we were just coming here to say hello...
Tsk... Someone's popular.
He'll have a go. I'll pass.
I'm aware.
If you say so.
Done being a do-gooder yet?
...Why does that hamster think you've grown up? You haven't changed at all.
Looks like Albedo's socialization program has been far more useful to you than all those Vahumana textbooks.
I thought you'd spend your precious time doing something more worthwhile.
Everyone has to take one? Well, fine. I'll take mine.
Variables?
I'm back.
I went to look for the Hyperborean phantoms again. I think I've gotten to the bottom of it.
I got them to talk to Nicole on the other end of the communications line. Turns out, the history they describe is different from how Nicole remembers it.
Because the phantoms are the ones who were deceived. They speak of a "savior" who appeared in their history, one who never should've existed.
This savior promised to create a new moon within the false sky, and even bring back their Moon Goddesses.
Foolishly, they believed in him, and told him everything he wanted to know about the moons.
It's obvious that this was Dottore's doing.
He didn't. Nicole said that this was an anomalous state triggered by disruptions in the causal connections between phantoms from the same era.
The "variables" that Dottore put in place were substantial enough that they even affected phantoms that he never met.
That's exactly the possibility Dottore was trying to manufacture. He turned these variables into knowledge and engineered the situation so all that knowledge would fall into his hands.
Then, he harnessed that knowledge on Moon-Prayer Night... to truly create a "false moon."
To be precise, he exploited a weakness in the way the spell works.
The spell senses kuuvahki to detect the moon's location. So, as long as the "false moon" more strongly resembled a moon than the Frost Moon beyond the skies...
That gate would teleport Columbina to the false moon's location... in other words, to Dottore's side.
Once he had her under control, the teleportation spell remained active, and he manipulated her power to seize both Moon Marrows.
As for me, I'm pretty familiar with Dottore's way of doing things, so I can try to predict his next move. I'll help with your investigation.
I'm here to return volume five.
Then let me put it this way: my copy is complete. Yours, on the other hand, is missing large amounts of content — so you should swap it for mine instead.
Oh, it's you.
I'm a traveling scholar, as you know. Isn't a library the most natural place for me to be?
There were some things I needed to come back and take care of. Some documents had gone missing, so I tracked them down, restored them to their original condition, and now, I'm here to return them.
And considering what I'm planning to do next, it feels like a weight off my shoulders...
What's going on with you, huh? You look like a kicked puppy.
What's that supposed to mean?
So it's been getting worse...
After he left Simulanka, he spent some time traveling Sumeru with me.
I was working on several texts at the time, and I stumbled upon something strange.
Any time "Durin of Simulanka" was mentioned, before long, the record would disappear.
Which means, all the remaining records on "Durin" are about the evil dragon that fell on Dragonspine.
That's besides the point. The fact is, you're not affected by the Ley Lines of this world. I'm sure you can grasp the implications of what that means.
His case is different from mine. It's more like the world itself refuses to accept his existence.
It started with a few written records. But now, it sounds like it's spread to people who never met him, or didn't know him well. At this rate, the whole world might forget him altogether.
There are more important questions right now. Like, figuring out how to fix this.
That mage clearly cared a lot about her child. She left that book behind for a reason. If you want answers, isn't that the place to find them?
Hmm... Mind if I take a look?
I just want to know what secrets this book is hiding. Besides, I've run into a bit of... "red tape", so I've got time.
You see me as... a stray cat!?
Vivid!? Then how come you haven't changed one bit!
Oh? So you're not playing yourself in this one?
Does that mean, the two of you have even more "memorable" roles to play?
Ugh, whatever. Just follow me, same as always.
If you have something to say, just say it.
Anyway, how do we get ourselves out of here?
As far as I remember, once that alchemist from Mondstadt learned about the prophecy, he chose to stand with you against the evil dragon.
So, what does any of this have to do with you being forgotten?
Well, it's not like we've got better options... But, if all we need to do is leave this place, which path should we take?
Huh? Looks like there's another path over here.
Huh, so the author managed to work this book into the story, too. I'll hand it to her, this book is fascinating.
When I first realized you were being forgotten by the world, I thought it might be because you'd spent too much time with me.
In which case, the only hope of a cure... would be to cut our ties for good.
It was just a suspicion before, but now I think it's something we have to try.
One of the story's branches is a path I can't take. If you follow it out of here, I won't be part of your story anymore.
As long as there's a chance it might work, it's worth a try.
He's not like me. He deserves for the world to remember him.
It's worth a shot. Just don't let this world forget who you are.
Huh, so the author managed to work this book into the story, too. I'll hand it to her, this book is fascinating.
You'd be choosing a branch of the story that I can't take... Paimon might be right about that.
But, at the same time, it could be the answer to your problem. It's worth a shot.
Fair enough. I guess we'll just have to keep searching.
Huh, well that's an interesting thought. Has the idea of returning to Simulanka ever crossed your mind?
Think about it, it's a place where a heartfelt wish is all it takes to rewrite the cruelest fate... Not like here, where fate mocks us all.
If there really is a being controlling the fate of this world, it must be a laughably spiteful creature, deaf to the wishes of others.
If you leave this world and its cruel fate behind, maybe your problems will be solved.
I was simply expressing my envy, that's all. Not everyone is lucky enough to have a place like Simulanka to return to.
Of course not. I'd rather show fate who's boss instead.
He helps stop the evil dragon from returning, gets a new body, makes a whole bunch of friends...
Who all just... forget about him.
I'm just saying, choosing this path wouldn't solve the main problem. You'd still end up being forgotten.
I'm not against choosing this path. I just wonder what secrets it might be hiding.
Judging from the narrator's reaction, it probably wasn't meant to be part of this chapter.
You really think it'll fly?
Huh...
You still don't get it? Simulanka Durin and Teyvat Durin share a special kind of connection: their fates are mirror images of one another.
While they were in two separate worlds, there may have been some mutual influence, but their fates were independent.
But when Simulanka Durin came to Teyvat, a version of his fate already existed there. So, how can two fates exist at the same time?
The answer is, they can't. The rules of this world don't allow it. You can't return a book you never checked out in the first place.
Hmph, those mages seem to have come up with quite the ingenious solution...
I'm here to make a return.
Then just think of this as volume six. Based on what I know, the author was planning on publishing another volume, anyway.
Sure, let's go with that. All you need to know is, I'll be the one writing this series from now on.
Remember the "red tape" I mentioned before? Well, I just took care of it. Now, I guess you'll be off to see your alchemist friend?
It should be pretty obvious by now, he has the answers you're looking for.
I'll join you. Just let me know when it's time to go.
Don't sound so surprised. I'm part of this story too, aren't I? I'm just... playing my role.
When I first realized you were being forgotten by the world, I thought it might be because you'd spent too much time with me. I even thought cutting our ties might be the only way to fix it.
It doesn't matter now. Judging from the answer this book has given us, I was probably overthinking it.
Just as well. With the Ley Lines rejecting him like this, the people who still remember him are his only remaining connection to this place.
If that last fragile tie was broken, who can say what devastation his unbound body might unleash?
And to think I'm one of the people keeping you here, instrumental in helping change your fate... Huh, can't say I saw it coming.
Excuse me?
Whatever. All I needed was a yes or no, so we can quit it with all the back and forth.
What are you even talking about? Hurry up and pick a path so we can get out of here.
I'm sticking around for the next few days, so when it's time to go, you know where to find me.
So this is the other Durin, huh?
If this had been the dragon that ended up being revived in Mondstadt, there's no telling what kind of calamity the people would have had to endure.
So, if you think about it like that, Durin's actually a hero.
No, I'm just a little envious, that's all. Not everyone gets a chance to be a hero.
Then again, barely anyone even remembers you at this point, so I guess there's not much left to envy.
I think I've pieced together some of what happened to him. But what's your take on things?
A form of magic powerful enough to rewrite fate itself...
At least you're still human-shaped.
Ugh, I'd like to know more about that too, but seeing as none of them can explain it, let's just concentrate on moving the plot forward.
There has to be some other reason.
Either way, it's an intriguing idea. I'm not opposed to giving it a shot.
Hmph. If fate really is as devious as they say, then I say... show us what you've got.
You might look back on it with fondness but, if I were you, I wouldn't miss it.
Sometimes, moving on with your life comes at a cost. But, that's better than going nowhere at all.
Hm... Well, this is Durin's story. As long as he's alive and well, why should it end?
Save it. The question is — are you here to help him, or stand in his way?
So be it. Whatever obstacles stand in your way, we'll tear them down together.
You're not alone in this world, Durin. At the very least... you have me.
Your name is Durin, and there are many who still remember it.
You're taking too long.
C'mon, Durin. Run. In this world, fate waits for no one.
A chance to strike back at fate? Now that's not something that comes knocking every day.
No dodging this one! Here, I'll help lift you up!
Just a shame I could only help out from the sidelines. Like I said before, it's not every day that you get to put fate in its place...
...Hear what?
Heh... Yeah, maybe someday.
Look, it all turned out fine, so just leave it at that. Now that this one's out of danger, it's time for me to get out of here.
A party? Do I look like that kinda guy?
Anyway, come find me again next time you're in trouble. That's what "friends" are for, right?
I had a feeling this would happen...
From today, you shall wander together with me.
When he first came out of that book, he had such a long list of questions. 
I never imagined becoming human would make him even more curious. His letters are so long — and his handwriting is so crooked, I can barely make it out. You can help explain things to him if you've got time, just to make sure he doesn't get off track.
I haven't had much free time lately, and nor have I been in the mood to specifically mark a day for myself — I mean, what's the point? 
We all know what we really should be doing right now, and it's definitely not gathering together in celebration, acting like everything's normal and celebrating birthdays.
But Durin sees it differently. He says that making an effort to meet someone can also be considered a meaningful action, and people united together naturally convey a certain kind of strength. I think he's trying to shift my mindset by saying that.
Let's meet up so I can give you a gift. That way, at least for one moment, two people can be happy.
Curious where I've been staying? A place like Nod-Krai doesn't lack shelter. I've made do.
Besides, no one here knows it's my birthday, which means no noisy surprises, no sudden crowds trying to celebrate. Honestly, it's ideal, isn't it?
And now that you've shown up, I suppose I'll allow it.
...Tch.
How absurd... Those Vahumana researchers are a sorry lot indeed if they're basing their research on such claptrap.
Hmm? A birthday present? ...You didn't put something strange in there, did you?
...What's so funny!?
Some Vahumana students were trying to push some book recommendations onto me. I don't have anything else to do, so I'm just idly flipping through them.
No need. Nobody bothers me here. Some peacefulness is nice for a change.
The little thing's hobbies are so predictable.
Good luck with that.
It's fine. I don't need any more sugar.
